Understanding network management protocols is an important part of your job as a network engineer and
he's also important within the role of doing network management network management protocols for a key
part of the solar winds product.
In other words solar winds management tools make use of management protocols to manage network devices.
This video will provide an overview of how network management applications live reach network management
protocols would also describe the different types of network management protocols that are available
and then explain the most common protocols when discussing network management protocols.
We need to think about three main things before we talk about that.
We'll look at how Arayan leverages network management protocols and which types of protocols are leveraged
for different types of monitoring solutions network performance monitor does both fault monitoring as
well as performance monitoring for fault management most network management systems including Selwyn's
use ICMP or ping to detect whether a device is up or down.
It's as simple as the network management system or in a mess sending out a ping request and waiting
for a ping response.
If the ICMP response isn't returned the a message seems that the device is down.
Now you know Ryan it works slightly differently in that if a response isn't returned Arayan places the
nodes in a mode warning stage which means that Arayan is going to do a fast poll of the device to verify
that it's really down.
NPM all Arayan by default will monitor the device in a fast polling mode for 120 seconds before notify
g that the device is down.
This is configurable on the Advanced Settings in the NPM system manager.
Monitoring for Fultz on some elements like interfaces and volume's he's done differently as it's done
via an MP Well simple network management protocol.
For example if the enemy is pinging a router to see if it's up or down and a response doesn't come back
they are in a mess doesn't really know whether that device is down.
All it knows is that the response didn't come back.
The device could be down but they could also be a routing problem or an intermediate device could be
done or a device between the end a mass and the router could be down.
So some device along the path could be down all traffic could be blocked by an ACL or a firewall rule
all the enemies knows is that it can't reach the device that it's pinging.
It's an AP On the other hand is different with SMP.
The enemy is acquiring a device and the device is telling the enemy via Asen MP the state of an interface.
So if a device indicates that interface first Ethan is 0 0 as an example is down.
The enemy knows 100 percent that that information is accurate because it received that information via
its an MP from the device that it was queering.
Now in the event that the actual devices down rather than an interface on the device you will get an
unknown state.
That's a different type of signifier than if the interface is down on a device that's up and running.
In terms of performance monitoring ICMP or ping is used for availability calculations and latency response
times SMP is used for almost all the other statistics including CPQ memory buffers interface traffic
and errors and many many other statistics.
In some cases for Windows systems the NMSL might leverage WMI or Windows management instrumentation
to check for performance count a type of values.